# Unix Lecture Notes
The reference text appears to be a transcript of a Unix terminal
session, likely from a lecture on Unix system programming. The commands
used in the session, along with their explanations and any notable
points, are listed below:

**Basic Navigation and File/Directory Management**

- clear: Clears the terminal screen.

- history: Displays a list of previously executed commands.

- ls: Lists the contents of the current directory.

- ls -l: Lists the contents in long format, showing additional details
  like permissions, owner, size, and modification time.

- ls -la: Lists all contents, including hidden files (those starting
  with a dot).

- pwd: Prints the current working directory (the directory you are
  currently in).

- mkdir sub2: Creates a new directory named \"sub2\".

- cd sub1: Changes the current directory to \"sub1\".

- cd ..: Changes the current directory to the parent directory (one
  level up).

- touch file2.txt: Creates an empty file named \"file2.txt\". If the
  file already exists, its timestamp is updated.

**File Editing and Manipulation**

- nano file3: Opens the file \"file3\" in the nano text editor. If the
  file doesn\'t exist, it\'s created.

- cp file3.txt other: Copies the content of \"file3.txt\" to a new file
  named \"other\".

- mv file3 newfile3: Renames the file \"file3\" to \"newfile3\".

- mv other sub1: Moves the file \"other\" into the directory \"sub1\".

- rm other: Deletes the file \"other\".

- rm -r sub1: Recursively deletes the directory \"sub1\" and all its
  contents.

- rmdir sub2: Deletes the empty directory \"sub2\".

**File Name Pattern Matching**

- touch f1..5: Creates five empty files: f1, f2, f3, f4, f5.

- touch f\[1..5\]: Same as above, creates f1 to f5.

- touch f1..f5: This likely results in an error. The intended behavior
  might have been to create files f1 to f5, but the syntax is incorrect.

- touch f{1..5}: Same as touch f1..5, creates f1 to f5.

- rm f\*: Deletes all files starting with the letter \"f\".

**Other**

- history \> lecture1.txt: Redirects the output of the history command
  (the list of previously executed commands) into a file named
  \"lecture1.txt\". This is how the transcript of the session was likely
  saved.

**Key Points and Notes**

- Unix commands are case-sensitive.

- Many commands have options (flags) that modify their behavior, usually
  indicated by a hyphen (-) followed by a letter or word.

- The shell uses wildcards like \* and ? for pattern matching, allowing
  you to operate on multiple files at once.

- Redirection (\> and \>\>) and pipes (\|) are powerful tools for
  chaining commands together and controlling the flow of data.

- Understanding file permissions and ownership is crucial for managing
  access to files and directories.

This lecture transcript provides a basic introduction to some essential
Unix commands. Mastering these commands and their various options is
fundamental for effectively navigating and managing files and
directories in a Unix-like environment. Understanding these concepts
lays a strong foundation for further exploration of Unix system
programming.

The reference text seems to be a transcript of a Unix terminal session,
likely from a lecture on Unix system programming. The commands used in
the session, along with their explanations and any notable points, are
listed below:

**Basic Navigation and File/Directory Management**

1.  cd lecture2: Changes the current directory to \"lecture2\".

2.  cd ../..: Navigates two directories up (to the parent of the parent
    directory).

3.  cd USP_Lectures/: Changes the current directory to \"USP_Lectures\".

4.  clear: Clears the terminal screen.

5.  pwd: Prints the current working directory.

6.  ls: Lists the contents of the current directory.

**Directory and File Operations**

1.  mkdir sub: Creates a new directory named \"sub\".

2.  rmdir sub: Removes the empty directory \"sub\".

3.  touch sub/file.txt: Creates an empty file named \"file.txt\" inside
    the \"sub\" directory.

4.  ls -l: Lists the contents of the current directory in long format,
    showing additional details like permissions, owner, size, and
    modification time.

5.  sudo rmdir sub: Attempts to remove the directory \"sub\" using
    superuser privileges (requires the \'sudo\' password), but likely
    fails if the directory is not empty.

6.  rm -r sub: Recursively removes the directory \"sub\" and all its
    contents.

7.  chmod 000 sub/file.txt: Changes the permissions of \"file.txt\" to
    deny all access (no read, write, or execute permissions for owner,
    group, or others).

8.  rm -rf sub: Forcefully removes the directory \"sub\" and all its
    contents, even if some files or directories have restricted
    permissions.

9.  touch f{1..5}: Creates five empty files: f1, f2, f3, f4, f5.

**File Permissions and Access Control**

1.  chmod 664 \*: Changes the permissions of all files in the current
    directory to allow read and write access for the owner and group,
    and read-only access for others.

2.  chmod 241 f1: Changes the permissions of \"f1\" to allow write
    access for the owner, read access for the group, and execute access
    for others.

3.  chmod u-w,g-r,o-r,o+x f2: Modifies the permissions of \"f2\":
    removes write permission for the owner, removes read permission for
    the group, removes read permission for others, and adds execute
    permission for others.

4.  chmod u=w,g=r,o=x f3: Sets the permissions of \"f3\": owner has
    write permission, group has read permission, and others have execute
    permission.

5.  chmod 444 f4: Changes the permissions of \"f4\" to allow read-only
    access for everyone (owner, group, and others).

6.  chmod u=r,g=r,o=r f4: Same as above, sets read-only permissions for
    everyone.

7.  chmod u-w,g-w f5: Removes write permission for the owner and group
    of \"f5\".

8.  chmod a=r f1: Sets read permission for everyone (all) on \"f1\".

9.  chmod u+wx f2: Adds write and execute permissions for the owner of
    \"f2\".

10. chmod a=4 f2: Sets the permissions of \"f2\" to allow read access
    for everyone and execute access for the owner.

11. chmod 444 lecture1: Changes the permissions of \"lecture1\" to allow
    read-only access for everyone.

12. chmod 774 lecture1: Changes the permissions of \"lecture1\" to allow
    read, write, and execute access for the owner and group, and
    read-only access for others.

13. chmod 775 lecture1: Changes the permissions of \"lecture1\" to allow
    read, write, and execute access for the owner and group, and read
    and execute access for others.

14. chmod 000 f?: Changes the permissions of all files starting with
    \"f\" and having a single character after that to deny all access.

15. chmod 664 f?: Changes the permissions of the same files to allow
    read and write access for the owner and group, and read-only access
    for others.

**File Search and Miscellaneous**

1.  rm f?: Removes all files starting with \"f\" and having a single
    character after that.

2.  cd \~/: Changes the current directory to the user\'s home directory.

3.  find . -name \"animals.txt\": Searches for the file \"animals.txt\"
    in the current directory and its subdirectories.

4.  ls -R: Recursively lists the contents of the current directory and
    all its subdirectories.

5.  nano welcome.sh: Opens or creates the file \"welcome.sh\" in the
    nano text editor.

6.  chmod u+x welcome.sh: Adds execute permission for the owner of
    \"welcome.sh\".

7.  ./welcome.sh: Executes the script \"welcome.sh\" in the current
    shell.

8.  cat welcome.sh: Displays the contents of the \"welcome.sh\" file.

9.  history \> lecture2.txt: Saves the command history to the file
    \"lecture2.txt\".

**Key Points and Notes**

- sudo allows executing commands with superuser (root) privileges, which
  is often required for tasks that modify system-level files or
  directories.

- File permissions in Unix-like systems are represented using a
  combination of three bits for each of the owner, group, and others
  categories: read (r), write (w), and execute (x).

- chmod is used to change file permissions, either using octal notation
  (e.g., 775) or symbolic notation (e.g., u+x, g-w).

- find is a powerful command for searching files and directories based
  on various criteria, such as name, size, modification time, and
  permissions.

- Shell scripts (like \"welcome.sh\") allow automating tasks by
  combining multiple commands and control structures.

This lecture transcript covers various aspects of file and directory
management, with a focus on permissions and access control.
Understanding these concepts is crucial for effectively working with
files and directories in a Unix-like environment and forms a basis for
further exploration of Unix system programming.

The reference text appears to be a transcript of a Unix terminal
session, likely from a lecture on Unix system programming. The commands
used in the session, along with their explanations and any notable
points, are listed below:

**Environment Variables and Manual Pages**

1.  env: Displays the current environment variables and their values.

2.  echo \$PATH: Prints the value of the PATH environment variable,
    which lists the directories where the shell searches for executable
    commands.

3.  echo \$HOME: Prints the path to the user\'s home directory.

4.  echo \$RANDOM: Prints a random integer between 0 and 32767.

5.  man ls: Displays the manual page for the ls command, providing
    detailed information about its usage and options.

**File Operations and Permissions**

1.  touch f{1..4}: Creates four empty files: f1, f2, f3, f4.

2.  chmod 664 \*: Changes the permissions of all files in the current
    directory to allow read and write access for the owner and group,
    and read-only access for others.

3.  ls -l: Lists the contents of the current directory in long format,
    showing details like permissions, owner, size, and modification
    time.

**Output Filtering and Redirection**

1.  ls -l \| tail -2: Pipes the output of ls -l to the tail command,
    which displays the last two lines.

2.  ls -l \| head -3: Pipes the output of ls -l to the head command,
    which displays the first three lines.

3.  ls -l \| tail -3 \| head -2: Chains multiple pipes: first gets the
    last three lines with tail -3, then from those, gets the first two
    lines with head -2.

4.  ls -l \| tail -3 \| head -2 \| wc: Further chains the output to the
    wc command, which counts the number of lines, words, and characters
    in the input.

5.  ls -l \| head -1: Displays the first line of the ls -l output.

6.  ls -l \| tail -n+2: Displays all lines of the ls -l output starting
    from the second line.

7.  ls -l \| tail -n+2 \> file.txt: Redirects the output of the previous
    command (all but the first line of ls -l) to a file named
    \"file.txt\".

8.  cat file.txt: Displays the contents of \"file.txt\".

9.  cat file.txt \| tail -3: Displays the last three lines of
    \"file.txt\".

10. cat file.txt \| tail -3 \| head -2: Gets the last three lines, then
    from those, displays the first two.

11. cat file.txt \| tail -3 \| head -2 \| nl: Adds line numbers to the
    output of the previous command.

12. cat file.txt \| tail -3 \| head -2 \| nl \| wc: Counts the lines,
    words, and characters in the output after adding line numbers.

**Command Execution and Chaining**

1.  cat file.txt; ls -l; whoami: Executes three commands sequentially:
    displays the content of \"file.txt\", lists files in long format,
    and prints the current username.

2.  cat file.txt && ls -l && whoami: Executes the same three commands,
    but each subsequent command only runs if the previous one succeeded
    (returned an exit status of 0).

3.  catn file.txt && ls -l && whoami: Likely results in an error as catn
    is not a standard Unix command.

4.  catn file.txt; ls -l; whoami: Same as above, but the commands are
    executed sequentially regardless of the exit status of catn.

5.  catn file.txt && ls -l && whoamdhdsh: Likely results in an error due
    to both catn and whoamdhdsh being invalid commands. Additionally,
    even if catn existed, the chain would stop there due to its likely
    failure.

6.  cat file2.txt && ls -l && whoami: Attempts to display the content of
    \"file2.txt\", then lists files, and prints the username, but only
    if \"file2.txt\" exists and can be read.

**Command Aliasing and Variable Assignment**

1.  george=ls -l: Assigns the output of \`ls -l\` to a variable named
    \`george\`. The backticks ( \` \`\`) are used for command
    substitution.

2.  echo \$george: Prints the value of the george variable, which
    contains the output of ls -l from the previous step.

3.  alias myc=\'ls -l \| tail -n+2\': Creates an alias named myc for the
    command ls -l \| tail -n+2.

4.  myc: Executes the aliased command, displaying all but the first line
    of the long file listing.

5.  nano \~/.bashrc: Opens the .bashrc file in the nano text editor.
    This file is a shell script that\'s executed whenever a new shell
    session is started, and it\'s often used to customize the shell
    environment, including setting aliases.

6.  man sort: Displays the manual page for the sort command.

**File Sorting and Uniqueness**

1.  cat animals.txt: Displays the contents of \"animals.txt\".

2.  cat animals.txt \| sort: Sorts the lines of \"animals.txt\"
    alphabetically and prints the sorted output.

3.  cat animals.txt \| sort -f: Sorts the lines, ignoring case
    differences (treating \"Tiger\" and \"tiger\" as the same).

4.  cat animals.txt \| sort \--ignore-case: Same as above, sorts
    ignoring case.

5.  cat animals.txt \| sort -f -u: Sorts ignoring case and removes
    duplicate lines, keeping only one instance of each unique line.

6.  cat animals.txt \| sort -f -u -r: Sorts ignoring case, removes
    duplicates, and reverses the sort order (descending).

7.  cat animals.txt \| sort -fru: Same as above, using the combined
    short form of the options.

8.  cat animals.txt \| sort -f: Sorts ignoring case.

9.  cat animals.txt \| sort -fr: Sorts ignoring case in reverse order.

10. cat animals.txt \| sort -fru: Sorts ignoring case, removes
    duplicates, and reverses the order.

11. cat animals.txt \| sort -fru \> animales2.txt: Same as above, but
    redirects the output to \"animales2.txt\".

12. ls: Lists the files in the current directory, now including
    \"animales2.txt\".

13. sort animales.txt animals.txt: Likely results in an error as
    \"animales.txt\" doesn\'t exist. The intended file might have been
    \"animales2.txt\".

14. sort animales2.txt animals.txt: Sorts the lines from both files
    combined, treating them as a single input.

15. sort -u an: Likely results in an error as an is not a valid filename
    or option.

16. sort animales2.txt animals.txt -u: Sorts the combined lines from
    both files and removes duplicates.

17. sort animales2.txt animals.txt\\ The backslash escapes the newline,
    so this command is incomplete and likely results in an error or
    waits for further input.

18. sort animales2.txt animals.txt: Same as before, sorts the combined
    lines from both files.

19. sort animales2.txt animals.txt -u: Same as before, sorts and removes
    duplicates.

**Environment Variables and Scripting**

1.  n=4: Assigns the value 4 to a variable named n.

2.  echo \$n: Prints the value of the n variable.

3.  echo \$PATH: Prints the value of the PATH environment variable
    again.

4.  env: Displays all environment variables and their values.

5.  nano check.sh: Opens or creates a file named \"check.sh\" in the
    nano text editor. This is likely intended to be a shell script.

6.  history \> lecture3.txt: Saves the command history to the file
    \"lecture3.txt\".

**Key Points and Notes**

The reference text appears to be a transcript of a Unix terminal
session, likely from a lecture on Unix system programming. The commands
used in the session, along with their explanations and any notable
points, are listed below:

**Basic File Operations and Output Redirection**

1.  **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

2.  **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory.

3.  **chmod 664 \***: Changes the permissions of all files in the
    current directory to allow read and write access for the owner and
    group, and read-only access for others.

4.  **ls -l**: Lists the contents of the current directory in long
    format, showing details like permissions, owner, size, and
    modification time.

5.  **ls -l \| tail -n+2**: Pipes the output of ls -l to the tail
    command, which displays all lines starting from the second line
    (skipping the header).

6.  **ls -l \| tail -n+2 \| nl**: Pipes the output of the previous
    command to nl, which adds line numbers to the output.

7.  **ls -l \| tail -n+2 \| nl \| wc**: Further pipes the output to wc,
    which counts the number of lines, words, and characters.

8.  **ls -l;cat demo.txt;whoami**: Executes three commands sequentially:
    lists files in long format, displays the content of \"demo.txt\",
    and prints the current username.

9.  **ls -l;ct demo.txt;whoami**: Likely results in an error as ct is
    not a standard Unix command. The intended command was probably cat.

**Text Output and File Manipulation**

1.  **echo -e \"USP Lecture4\nWednesday\"**: Prints the text \"USP
    Lecture4\" followed by a newline and then \"Wednesday\" using the -e
    option to enable interpretation of backslash escape sequences.

2.  **echo \"USP Lecture4\nWednesday\"**: Prints the same text but
    without interpreting the newline character, so it\'s printed
    literally.

3.  **echo -e \"USP Lecture4\nWednesday\" \> file1.txt**: Redirects the
    output of the echo command (the formatted text) into \"file1.txt\",
    overwriting its existing content.

4.  **ls**: Lists the files, now including the modified \"file1.txt\".

5.  **cat file1.txt**: Displays the contents of \"file1.txt\".

6.  **echo -e \"USP 32547\nSpring2024\" \> file1.txt**: Overwrites
    \"file1.txt\" with new content.

7.  **echo -e \"Lecture4\nWednesday\" \>\> file1.txt**: Appends the text
    to the end of \"file1.txt\" using \>\>.

8.  **cat file1.txt**: Displays the updated content of \"file1.txt\".

9.  **cat \< file1.txt**: Reads the content of \"file1.txt\" using input
    redirection (\<) and prints it to the terminal, essentially the same
    as cat file1.txt.

10. **cat \< file1.txt \| tee file2.txt**: Reads from \"file1.txt\",
    prints the content to the terminal, and also writes it to
    \"file2.txt\" using the tee command.

11. **cat \< file1.txt \| tee -a file2.txt**: Same as above, but appends
    to \"file2.txt\" instead of overwriting it due to the -a option.

**File Permissions and Error Handling**

1.  **chmod 000 file2.txt**: Changes the permissions of \"file2.txt\" to
    deny all access (no read, write, or execute for anyone).

2.  **cat file1.txt**: Displays the content of \"file1.txt\" (succeeds).

3.  **cat file2.txt**: Tries to display the content of \"file2.txt\" but
    fails due to the lack of read permission, resulting in a
    \"Permission denied\" error.

4.  **cat \* \> out.txt 2\> error.txt**: Tries to concatenate all files
    in the directory and redirect the output to \"out.txt\". Any errors
    (like the permission issue with \"file2.txt\") are redirected to
    \"error.txt\".

5.  **cat out.txt**: Displays the content of \"out.txt\", which contains
    the successfully concatenated files.

6.  **cat error.txt**: Displays the content of \"error.txt\", showing
    the error message from the failed cat attempt on \"file2.txt\".

**Text Processing and Field Manipulation**

1.  **echo \"\" \> file1.txt**: Clears the content of \"file1.txt\" by
    writing an empty string to it.

2.  **chmod 664 file2.txt**: Restores read and write permissions for the
    owner and group on \"file2.txt\".

3.  **ls -l \| tail -n+2 \> out.txt**: Writes the long file listing
    (excluding the header) to \"out.txt\".

4.  **cat out.txt \| cut -d \" \" -f 1**: Extracts the first field
    (column) from each line of \"out.txt\" using cut, considering space
    as the delimiter (-d \" \").

5.  **cat out.txt \| cut -d \" \" -f 1,4**: Extracts the first and
    fourth fields.

6.  **cat out.txt \| cut -d \" \" -f 1-4**: Extracts fields 1 through 4.

7.  **cat out.txt \| cut -d \" \" -f 1-5**: Extracts fields 1 through 5.

8.  **cat out.txt \| awk \'{print \$1 \" \" \$5}\'**: Uses awk to print
    the first and fifth fields, separated by a space.

9.  **cat out.txt \| awk \'{print \$1 \" \" \$5 \" \" \$9}\'**: Prints
    the first, fifth, and ninth fields.

10. **cat out.txt \| awk \'{printf \"%s %s %s\n\",\$1,\$5,\$9}\'**: Same
    as above, but uses printf for more formatted output.

11. **cat out.txt \| awk \'{printf \"%15s %7s %16s\n\",\$1,\$5,\$9}\'**:
    Specifies field widths for formatting: 15 characters for the first
    field, 7 for the second, and 16 for the third.

12. **cat out.txt \| awk \'{printf \"%15s %7s
    %-16s\n\",\$1,\$5,\$9}\'**: Left-justifies the third field using -.

13. **cat out.txt \| awk \'{printf \"%-15s %-7s
    %-16s\n\",\$1,\$5,\$9}\'**: Left-justifies all fields.

**File Sorting and Line Uniqueness**

1.  **sort animals.txt**: Sorts the lines of \"animals.txt\"
    alphabetically.

2.  **sort -u animals.txt**: Sorts and removes duplicate lines, keeping
    only one instance of each unique line.

3.  **uniq animals.txt**: Prints only unique lines, but requires the
    input to be sorted beforehand to detect duplicates correctly. In
    this case, it might not produce the expected result as
    \"animals.txt\" is likely not sorted.

4.  **sort animals.txt \| uniq**: Sorts the input first, then pipes it
    to uniq, ensuring correct duplicate removal.

5.  **pr animals.txt**: Paginates the content of \"animals.txt\" for
    better readability, adding headers, footers, and column formatting.

6.  **pr animals.txt -3 -t animals.txt**: Paginates with three columns
    (-3) and suppresses headers and footers (-t).

7.  **pr animals.txt -n -3 -t animals.txt**: Adds line numbers (-n) to
    the paginated output.

**Pattern Searching with Grep**

1.  **grep Tutor demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing \"Tutor\" in
    \"demo.txt\".

2.  **grep -w Tutor demo.txt**: Searches for whole words matching
    \"Tutor\" (not substrings like \"Tutorial\").

3.  \*\*\`grep

The reference text appears to be a transcript of a Unix terminal
session, likely from a lecture on Unix system programming. The commands
used in the session, along with their explanations and any notable
points, are listed below:

**Searching with Grep**

1.  **grep \'grep\' file**: The most basic use of grep. It searches for
    the pattern \'grep\' in the file named \'file\'. The output will be
    any lines in the file that contain the pattern.

2.  **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

3.  **cd lecture4**: Changes the current directory to \'lecture4\'.

4.  **grep \'grep\' demo.txt**: Searches for the pattern \'grep\' in the
    file \'demo.txt\'.

5.  **grep -i \'grep\' demo.txt**: The \'-i\' option makes the search
    case-insensitive, so it will find both \'grep\' and \'GREP\'.

6.  **grep -in \'grep\' demo.txt**: The \'-n\' option adds line numbers
    to the output, showing which line each match was found on.

7.  **var=tutor**: Assigns the string \'tutor\' to the variable \'var\'.

8.  **grep \$var demo.txt**: Searches for the pattern stored in the
    variable \'var\' (which is \'tutor\') in the file \'demo.txt\'.

9.  **grep -i \$var demo.txt**: Same as above but case-insensitive.

10. **grep -wi \$var demo.txt**: The \'-w\' option matches only whole
    words, so it won\'t find \'tutor\' within another word like
    \'tutorial\'.

11. **grep -win \$var demo.txt**: Combines all three options:
    case-insensitive, whole word matching, and line numbers.

12. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen again.

13. **grep \'tutor\' demo.txt**: Basic search for \'tutor\'.

14. **grep -i \'tutor\' demo.txt**: Case-insensitive search for
    \'tutor\'.

15. **grep -wi \'tutor\' demo.txt**: Case-insensitive, whole-word search
    for \'tutor\'.

16. **grep -i \'\btutor\b\' demo.txt**: Uses word boundaries (\'\b\') to
    ensure that \'tutor\' is matched as a whole word, even in a
    case-insensitive search.

17. **grep -ni \'\btutor\b\' demo.txt**: Adds line numbers to the
    output.

18. **grep -ni -A 3 \'\btutor\b\' demo.txt**: The \'-A 3\' option shows
    3 lines of context after each match.

19. **grep -ni -B 1 \'\btutor\b\' demo.txt**: The \'-B 1\' option shows
    1 line of context before each match.

20. **grep -ni -C 1 \'\btutor\b\' demo.txt**: The \'-C 1\' option shows
    1 line of context both before and after each match.

21. **clear**: Clears the screen.

22. **grep \'\[0-9\]\' demo.txt**: Searches for any single digit (0
    through 9).

23. **grep \'\[0-9\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**: Searches for 3 or 4 consecutive
    digits.

24. **grep -E \'\[0-9\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**: Same as above, but using the
    \'-E\' option to enable extended regular expressions.

25. **grep -E \'\[A-Z\]\' demo.txt**: Searches for any single uppercase
    letter.

26. **grep -E \'\[A-Z\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**: Searches for 3 or 4
    consecutive uppercase letters.

27. **grep -E \'\[0-9\]{3,4} \| \[A-Z\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**: Searches for
    either 3 or 4 consecutive digits OR 3 or 4 consecutive uppercase
    letters. The \'\|\' acts as an OR operator.

28. **grep -E \'\[0-9\]{3,4}\|\[A-Z\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**: Same as above,
    but without extra spaces around the \'\|\'.

29. **clear**: Clears the screen.

30. **grep -E \'\[0-9\]{3,4}\|\[A-Z\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**: Same search as
    before.

31. **grep -e \'\[0-9\]{3,4}\' -e \'\[A-Z\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**: Achieves
    the same result as the previous command but uses multiple \'-e\'
    options to specify multiple patterns.

32. **grep -eE \'\[0-9\]{3,4}\' -eE \'\[A-Z\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**:
    Combines \'-e\' and \'-E\' for each pattern.

33. **grep -E -e \'\[0-9\]{3,4}\' -e \'\[A-Z\]{3,4}\' demo.txt**: Same
    as above, the order of options doesn\'t matter.

34. **grep -E \'#\|\$\' demo.txt**: This command is incorrect as \'\$\'
    has a special meaning in regular expressions (end of line). It will
    likely not produce the intended result of searching for lines
    containing \'#\' or \'\$\'.

35. **clear**: Clears the screen

36. **grep -E \'#\|\\\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing either
    \'#\' or \'′.Thebackslashescapesthe′\', so it\'s treated as a
    literal character.

37. **grep -e \'#\' -e \'\\\' demo.txt**: Same as above, using multiple
    \'-e\' options.

38. **grep \'\[#\$\]\' demo.txt**: Another way to search for \'#\' or
    \'\$\', using a character class within square brackets.

39. **grep \'#\' demo.txt \| grep \'\\\'**: First finds lines with
    \'#\', then pipes the output to another grep to find lines that also
    contain \'\$\'. This is less efficient than the previous methods.

40. **grep \'#.\*\$\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that start with
    \'#\' and end with \'\$\', with any characters in between (\'.\'
    matches any character, \'\*\' means zero or more occurrences).

41. **grep -E \'#.\*\$\' demo.txt**: Same as above, using \'-E\' for
    extended regular expressions.

42. **grep -E \'#.\*\\\' demo.txt**: This is incorrect as it escapes the
    \'′,makingitaliteralcharacterinsteadofanend−of−lineanchor.Itwilllikelynotproduceanymatchesunlessthere′saliteral′\'
    at the end of a line after a \'#\'.

43. **grep -E \'#+\\\' demo.txt**: Searches for one or more \'#\'
    followed by a \'\$\' at the end of the line. The \'+\' means one or
    more occurrences.

44. **grep -E \'#.+\\\' demo.txt**: Similar to above, but requires at
    least one character between \'#\' and \'\$\' at the end of the line.

45. **clear**: Clears the screen

46. **grep \'\^\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that start with any
    character (since \'\^\' matches the beginning of a line, and \'.\'
    matches any character). This will essentially match all lines in the
    file.

47. **grep \'\\\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing a literal
    \'\^\' character (the backslash escapes the special meaning).

48. **grep \'\^\\\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that start with a
    literal \'\^\' character.

49. **grep \'\\ demo.txt**: This is likely an error as a single
    backslash at the end of a pattern is not valid. It might be intended
    to search for a literal backslash, which would require escaping it:
    grep \'\\\' demo.txt.

50. **grep \'\\\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing a literal
    backslash.

51. **clear**: Clears the screen

52-61\*\*: These commands repeat some of the previous searches, likely
for demonstration purposes.

62. **grep \'#\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing \'#\'.

63. **grep \'\\\' demo.txt**: This is likely an error and intended to be
    grep \'\\\$\' demo.txt to search for lines containing a literal
    \'\$\'.

64. **cleart**: This is a typo, the correct command is clear to clear
    the screen.

65. **clear**: Clears the screen

66. **grep \'\\\' demo.txt**: Same as the previous incorrect attempt,
    likely meant to be grep \'\\\$\' demo.txt.

67. **grep \'\\\$\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that end with a
    literal \'′.Thefirst′\' is escaped, the second one is an end-of-line
    anchor.

68. \*\*\`grep -E \'\$\$




# Unix Lab Notes

The reference text appears to be a transcript of a Unix terminal session, likely lab work for a Unix system programming course. The commands used in the session, along with their explanations and any notable points, are listed below:

**Basic Navigation and Manual Pages**

1. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.
1. **man ls**: Displays the manual page for the ls command.
1. **man grep**: Displays the manual page for the grep command.
1. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory (the directory you are currently in).
1. **cd ..**: Changes the current directory to the parent directory (one level up).
1. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory again (after moving up one level).
1. **cd ..**: Moves up another level in the directory hierarchy.
1. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory (after the second cd ..).
1. **cd ../..**: Moves up two more levels.
1. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory.
1. **cd**: Changes the current directory to the user's home directory.
1. **cd /**: Changes the current directory to the root directory (the top-level directory in the filesystem).
1. **cd ~**: Changes the current directory back to the user's home directory (same as command 11).
1. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory (should be the user's home directory).
1. **cd /**: Changes the current directory to the root directory again.
1. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory (should be /).
1. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

**Listing Files and Directories**

18. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory (the root directory in this case).
18. **ls etc**: Lists the contents of the etc directory, which typically contains system-wide configuration files.
18. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.
18. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory again (still the root directory).
18. **ls bin**: Lists the contents of the bin directory, which usually contains essential system commands.
18. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.
18. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory.
18. **ls usr**: Lists the contents of the usr directory, which often holds user-related programs and data.
18. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory (still /).
18. **ls usr/share/**: Lists the contents of the usr/share directory.
18. **ls usr/share/zsh**: Lists the contents of the usr/share/zsh directory.
18. **ls usr/share/zsh/vendor-completions/**: Lists the contents of the usr/share/zsh/vendor-completions/ directory.
18. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

**Navigating to a Specific Directory**

31. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory (still /).
31. **ls ~/**: Lists the contents of the user's home directory.
31. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory (still /).
31. **cd ~/GitHub/USP\_Tutorials/**: Changes the current directory to the USP\_Tutorials directory within the user's GitHub repository.
31. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory (should now be ~/GitHub/USP\_Tutorials/).
31. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory (USP\_Tutorials).
31. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

**Listing Files with Details and Hidden Files**

38. **ls -l**: Lists the contents of the current directory in long format, showing additional details like permissions, owner, size, and modification time.
38. **ls -a**: Lists all contents, including hidden files (those starting with a dot).
38. **ls -al**: Combines the -a and -l options, listing all contents (including hidden files) in long format.
38. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

**Navigating and Listing Files Recursively**

42. **cd /**: Changes the current directory back to the root directory.
42. **ls -l**: Lists the contents of the root directory in long format.
42. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.
42. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory (root).
42. **ls ~/GitHub/USP\_Tutorials/**: Lists the contents of the USP\_Tutorials directory without changing the current directory.
42. **ls ~/GitHub/USP**: Lists the contents of the USP directory within the user's GitHub repository.
42. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.
42. **ls -R ~/GitHub/USP**: Recursively lists the contents of the USP directory and all its subdirectories.
42. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

**Creating and Managing Directories and Files**

51. **cd ~/GitHub/USP\_Tutorials/**: Changes the current directory to USP\_Tutorials.
51. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory.
51. **mkdir sub1**: Creates a new directory named "sub1".
51. **ls -l**: Lists the contents in long format, now including the newly created "sub1" directory
51. **mkdir sub{2..7}**: Creates multiple directories named "sub2" to "sub7" using brace expansion
51. **ls**: Lists the contents, now including "sub1" to "sub7"
51. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen

**Creating and Moving Files**

58. **touch f{1..4}**: Creates four empty files: f1, f2, f3, f4 using brace expansion
58. **ls -l**: Lists the contents in long format, now including the files f1 to f4
58. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen
58. **mkdir unix1**: Creates a new directory named "unix1"
58. **ls**: Lists the contents, now including the "unix1" directory
58. **mv f1 f44**: Renames the file "f1" to "f44"
58. **ls**: Lists the contents, showing "f44" instead of "f1"
58. **mv sub1 unix1/**: Moves the directory "sub1" into the "unix1" directory
58. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory, "sub1" is no longer there
58. **ls unix1/**: Lists the contents of the "unix1" directory, showing "sub1" inside it
58. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen

**More File Moving**

69. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory
69. **mv sub[2-7] unix1**: Moves directories "sub2" to "sub7" into the "unix1" directory using pattern matching
69. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory, "sub2" to "sub7" are no longer there
69. **ls unix1/**: Lists the contents of "unix1", showing "sub1" to "sub7" inside
69. **mv f\* unix1**: Moves all files starting with "f" into "unix1"
69. **ls unix1/**: Lists the contents of "unix1", now including the "f" files
69. **ls**: Lists the contents of the current directory, no "f" files remain

**Navigating and Creating More Files**

76. **cd unix1/**: Changes the current directory to "unix1"
76. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen
76. **ls**: Lists the contents of "unix1"
76. **touch fa fb fa2 fa3 f2a f2b faa fbb f55**: Creates multiple empty files with various names
76. **ls**: Lists the contents, now including the newly created files

**Copying Files**

81. **cp f2 sub1**: Copies the file "f2" into the "sub1" directory
81. **ls sub1**: Lists the contents of "sub



The reference text is a transcript of a Unix terminal session, likely lab work for a Unix system programming course. The commands used in the session, along with their explanations and any notable points, are listed below:

**Setting up the Environment**

1. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.
1. **mkdir unix2**: Creates a new directory named "unix2".
1. **cd unix2**: Changes the current working directory to "unix2".
1. **pwd**: Prints the current working directory, which should now be the full path to the "unix2" directory.
1. **touch f{1..6}**: Creates six empty files named f1, f2, f3, f4, f5, and f6 using brace expansion.

**Experimenting with File Permissions**

6. **chmod 142 f1**: Changes the permissions of the file "f1" using octal notation. The resulting permissions are:
   1. Owner: execute only (1)
   1. Group: read only (4)
   1. Others: write only (2)
6. **ls -l f1**: Lists the details of the file "f1" in long format, including the modified permissions.
6. **chmod u=x,g=r,o=w f2**: Changes the permissions of "f2" using symbolic notation. The permissions are set as follows:
   1. User (u): execute (x)
   1. Group (g): read (r)
   1. Others (o): write (w)
6. **ls -l f2**: Lists the details of "f2", showing the new permissions.
6. **chmod u+x,u-rw,g-w,o-r,o+w f3**: Modifies the permissions of "f3" using symbolic notation.
   1. User (u): adds execute permission (+x), removes read and write permissions (-rw)
   1. Group (g): removes write permission (-w)
   1. Others (o): removes read permission (-r), adds write permission (+w)
6. **ls -l f3**: Lists the details of "f3" with the updated permissions.
6. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.
6. **chmod a=x f4**: Sets execute permission for all (a - owner, group, and others) on "f4".
6. **ls -l f4**: Lists the details of "f4".
6. **chmod 111 f5**: Changes the permissions of "f5" using octal notation, giving execute permission to owner, group, and others.
6. **ls -l f5**: Lists the details of "f5".
6. **chmod u=x,g=x,o=x f6**: Sets execute permission for owner, group, and others on "f6" using symbolic notation.
6. **ls -l f6**: Lists the details of "f6".
6. **chmod 664 f?**: Changes permissions for all files starting with "f" and having a single character after that (f1 to f6 in this case) to:
   1. Owner: read and write (6)
   1. Group: read and write (6)
   1. Others: read only (4)
6. **ls -l**: Lists all files in the current directory with their details, showing the updated permissions.

**Cleaning Up and Creating Script Files**

21. **rm f?**: Removes all files starting with "f" and having a single character after that.
21. **ls -l**: Lists the contents of the directory, which should now be empty.
21. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

24-31. **nano <filename>.sh**: Creates or opens various shell script files using the nano text editor: \* command.sh \* arthimetic.sh \* welcome.sh \* args.sh \* singleif.sh \* ifelse.sh \* nestedif.sh \* cascadedif.sh

32. **clear**: Clears the terminal screen.

33-37. **nano <filename>.sh**: Creates or opens more shell script files: \* switch.sh \* forloop.sh \* foreach.sh \* whileloop.sh \* forloop.sh (This one is opened again, possibly by mistake)

**Saving the Command History**

38. **history > unix2.txt**: Redirects the output of the history command (the list of previously executed commands) into a file named "unix2.txt". This is how the transcript of the session was likely saved.


The provided .sh files are Bash shell scripts, each demonstrating different programming concepts in Unix. Let's break down what each script does and how to add them to the 'unix2' directory.

**1. arithmetic.sh and arthimetic.sh**

These scripts (one seems to be a misspelling) showcase basic arithmetic operations in Bash.

- They define two variables, a and b, and assign them numeric values.
- They then perform addition on these variables using three different methods:
  - **Arithmetic Expansion:** $((a + b)) or $[$a + $b]
  - **expr command:** expr $a + $b
- The results are stored in variables (result1, result2, result3) and printed to the console.

**2. command.sh**

This script demonstrates basic file and directory manipulation commands.

- It creates five files (f1 to f5) using brace expansion.
- It creates a directory named 'sub'.
- It moves all the created files into the 'sub' directory.
- It lists the contents of the 'sub' directory.
- Finally, it deletes the 'sub' directory and its contents.

**3. singleif.txt**

This script illustrates a simple if statement.

- It prompts the user to enter their name.
- If the entered name is "Tom", it prints a welcome message.
- Regardless of the input, it prints a "Good bye!" message at the end.

**4. ifelse.txt**

This script demonstrates an if-else construct.

- It asks the user for a username and password.
- It checks if the entered credentials match "admin" and "super123".
- If they match, it prints "Welcome"; otherwise, it prints "Incorrect credentials".

**5. nestedif.txt**

This script showcases nested if statements.

- It prompts the user for an integer.
- It first checks if the number is non-negative.
  - If so, it further checks if it's even or odd using the modulo operator (%).
- If the number is negative, it prints a corresponding message.

**6. cascadedif.txt**

This script uses a cascade of if-elif-else statements to determine grades based on a mark.

- It takes the student's name as input and the mark as a command-line argument.
- It assigns a grade (HD, D, C, P, or Z) based on the mark using multiple if-elif conditions.
- Finally, it prints the student's name, mark, and grade.

**7. switch.txt**

This script employs a case statement to handle different choices.

- It asks the user for a direction (N, S, E, or W).
- Based on the input, it prints a message indicating the corresponding road and direction.
- If the input is invalid, it prints an error message.

**8. forloop.txt**

This script demonstrates a for loop with a C-style syntax.

- It takes an integer 'n' as input.
- It iterates from 0 to 'n', printing each number and its square.

**9. foreach.txt**

This script uses a for loop to iterate over a sequence of numbers.

- It takes three arguments: the first number, the last number, and the step value.
- It uses the seq command to generate the sequence.
- For each number in the sequence, it prints the number and its square.

**Adding these scripts to 'unix2'**

You can add these scripts to the 'unix2' directory using the following steps:

1. Make sure you are in the correct directory:

Bash

cd ~/GitHub/USP\_Tutorials/unix2

1. Copy the script files into the 'unix2' directory. Assuming the scripts are in your current directory, you can use:

Bash

cp \*.txt unix2/

This will copy all files ending with .txt into the 'unix2' directory.

1. Navigate to the 'unix2' directory:

Bash

cd unix2

1. Make the scripts executable:

Bash

chmod +x \*.sh

This will add execute permissions to all files ending with .sh.

Now you can run the scripts from within the 'unix2' directory using ./scriptname.sh. For example, to run the arithmetic.sh script, you would use:

Bash

./arithmetic.sh


These .sh files are Bash shell scripts, each demonstrating a different concept in Unix shell scripting. Here's a breakdown of each one:

- **arithmetic.sh and arthimetic.sh**: These scripts demonstrate basic arithmetic operations in Bash. They perform addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division on two variables and print the results.
- **args.txt**: This script shows how to work with command-line arguments in Bash. It prints the script name ($0), individual arguments ($1, $2, etc.), the number of arguments ($#), and the entire list of arguments ($\*).
- **cascadedif.txt**: This script uses a cascade of if-elif-else statements to determine a student's grade based on their mark. It takes the student's name as input and the mark as a command-line argument.
- **command.txt**: This script demonstrates basic file and directory manipulation commands. It creates files, creates a directory, moves files into the directory, lists the directory contents, and then deletes the directory and its contents.
- **foreach.txt**: This script uses a for loop to iterate over a sequence of numbers generated by the seq command. It takes three arguments: the first number, the last number, and the step value. For each number in the sequence, it prints the number and its square.
- **forloop.txt**: This script demonstrates a for loop with a C-style syntax. It takes an integer 'n' as input and iterates from 0 to 'n', printing each number and its square.
- **ifelse.txt**: This script demonstrates an if-else construct. It asks the user for a username and password and checks if they match predefined values. If they match, it prints "Welcome"; otherwise, it prints "Incorrect credentials".
- **nestedif.txt**: This script showcases nested if statements. It prompts the user for an integer and checks if it's positive, negative, or zero. If it's positive, it further checks if it's even or odd.
- **singleif.txt**: This script illustrates a simple if statement. It prompts the user to enter their name and prints a welcome message if the name is "Tom".
- **switch.txt**: This script employs a case statement to handle different choices. It asks the user for a direction (N, S, E, or W) and prints a message indicating the corresponding road and direction. If the input is invalid, it prints an error message.
- **userinput.txt and welcome.txt**: These scripts are the same. They prompt the user to enter their name and then print a welcome message with the entered name.
- **whileloop.txt**: This script demonstrates a while loop. It reads integers from standard input until -1 is entered. It adds all the even numbers and then shows the total.

These .sh files are Bash shell scripts, each demonstrating a different concept in Unix shell scripting. Here's a breakdown of each one:

- **arithmetic.sh and arthimetic.sh**: These scripts demonstrate basic arithmetic operations in Bash. They perform addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division on two variables and print the results.
- **args.txt**: This script shows how to work with command-line arguments in Bash. It prints the script name ($0), individual arguments ($1, $2, etc.), the number of arguments ($#), and the entire list of arguments ($\*).
- **cascadedif.txt**: This script uses a cascade of if-elif-else statements to determine a student's grade based on their mark. It takes the student's name as input and the mark as a command-line argument.
- **command.txt**: This script demonstrates basic file and directory manipulation commands. It creates files, creates a directory, moves files into the directory, lists the directory contents, and then deletes the directory and its contents.
- **foreach.txt**: This script uses a for loop to iterate over a sequence of numbers generated by the seq command. It takes three arguments: the first number, the last number, and the step value. For each number in the sequence, it prints the number and its square.
- **forloop.txt**: This script demonstrates a for loop with a C-style syntax. It takes an integer 'n' as input and iterates from 0 to 'n', printing each number and its square.
- **ifelse.txt**: This script demonstrates an if-else construct. It asks the user for a username and password and checks if they match predefined values. If they match, it prints "Welcome"; otherwise, it prints "Incorrect credentials".
- **nestedif.txt**: This script showcases nested if statements. It prompts the user for an integer and checks if it's positive, negative, or zero. If it's positive, it further checks if it's even or odd.
- **singleif.txt**: This script illustrates a simple if statement. It prompts the user to enter their name and prints a welcome message if the name is "Tom".
- **switch.txt**: This script employs a case statement to handle different choices. It asks the user for a direction (N, S, E, or W) and prints a message indicating the corresponding road and direction. If the input is invalid, it prints an error message.
- **userinput.txt and welcome.txt**: These scripts are the same. They prompt the user to enter their name and then print a welcome message with the entered name.
- **whileloop.txt**: This script demonstrates a while loop. It reads integers from standard input until -1 is entered. It adds all the even numbers and then shows the total.



The reference text appears to be a transcript of a Unix terminal session, likely lab work for a Unix system programming course. The commands used in the session, along with their explanations and any notable points, are listed below:

**The commands and their explanations:**

- **grep unix demo.txt**: The most basic use of grep. It searches for the pattern 'unix' in the file named 'demo.txt'. The output will be any lines in the file that contain the pattern.
- **grep -i unix demo.txt**: The '-i' option makes the search case-insensitive, so it will find both 'unix' and 'UNIX'.
- **grep -w unix demo.txt**: The '-w' option matches only whole words, so it won't find 'unix' within another word.
- **grep -wi unix demo.txt**: Combines the '-w' and '-i' options for case-insensitive whole-word matching.
- **grep -win unix demo.txt**: The '-n' option adds line numbers to the output, showing which line each match was found on.
- **grep -winl unix demo.txt**: The '-l' option only shows the names of files that contain matches, not the matching lines themselves.
- **var=grep**: Assigns the string 'grep' to the variable 'var'.
- **grep $var demo.txt**: Searches for the pattern stored in the variable 'var' (which is 'grep') in the file 'demo.txt'.
- **grep -i $var demo.txt**: Same as above but case-insensitive.
- **grep -i $var$ demo.txt**: This likely results in an error or no output. The '$' at the end of the pattern has a special meaning in regular expressions (end of line), so it's looking for 'grep' followed immediately by the end of the line.
- **grep '[A-Z]' demo.txt**: Searches for any single uppercase letter.
- **grep -E '[A-Z]{3}' demo.txt**: The '-E' option enables extended regular expressions. This searches for 3 consecutive uppercase letters.
- **grep -E '[A-Z]{4}' demo.txt**: Searches for 4 consecutive uppercase letters.
- **grep -E '[A-Z]{4}$' demo.txt**: Searches for 4 consecutive uppercase letters at the end of a line ('$' anchors the match to the end).
- **grep -E '^[A-Z]{4}' demo.txt**: Searches for 4 consecutive uppercase letters at the beginning of a line ('^' anchors the match to the start).
- **grep '[0-9]' demo.txt**: Searches for any single digit (0 through 9).
- **grep -E '[0-9]{2}' demo.txt**: Searches for 2 consecutive digits.
- **grep -E '[0-9]{3}' demo.txt**: Searches for 3 consecutive digits.
- **grep -E '[0-9]{4}' demo.txt**: Searches for 4 consecutive digits.
- **grep -E '[0-9]{3,4}' demo.txt**: Searches for 3 or 4 consecutive digits ('{3,4}' means a range of 3 to 4 occurrences).
- **grep -E '^[0-9]' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that start with a digit.
- **grep -E '[0-9]$' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that end with a digit.
- **grep '^' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that start with any character (since '^' matches the beginning of a line, and '.' matches any character). This will essentially match all lines in the file.
- **grep '^\^' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing a literal '^' character (the backslash escapes the special meaning).
- **grep '$' demo.txt**: This is likely an error as '′hasaspecialmeaninginregularexpressions(endofline).Itwilllikelynotproducetheintendedresultofsearchingforlinescontaining′'.
- **grep '\$$' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that end with a literal '′.Thefirst′' is escaped, the second one is an end-of-line anchor.
- **grep '^$' demo.txt**: Searches for blank lines (start of line immediately followed by end of line).
- **grep -v '^$' demo.txt**: The '-v' option inverts the match, so it finds all lines that are NOT blank.
- **grep -E '( )$' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that end with a space. The parentheses are not necessary here.
- **grep -E '\s$' demo.txt**: Same as above, '\s' matches any whitespace character (space, tab, newline, etc.).
- **grep '\' demo.txt**: This is likely an error as a single backslash at the end of a pattern is not valid. It might be intended to search for a literal backslash, which would require escaping it: grep '\\' demo.txt.
- **grep '\\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing a literal backslash.
- **grep '^\\' demo.txt**: Searches for lines that start with a literal backslash.
- **grep -E '\[[0-9]\]' demo.txt**: Searches for a single digit enclosed in square brackets. The backslashes escape the brackets, so they are treated as literal characters.
- **grep -E '\[[0-9]{2}\]' demo.txt**: Searches for two digits enclosed in square brackets.
- **grep '#' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing '#'.
- **grep '#' demo.txt | grep '[0-9]'**: First finds lines with '#', then pipes the output to another grep to find lines that also contain a digit. This is an example of combining grep commands to perform an AND operation (find lines that match both patterns).
- **grep '#' demo.txt | grep -E '[0-9]{4}'**: Same as above, but the second grep searches for 4 consecutive digits.
- **grep '#' demo.txt | grep -E '[0-9]{4}$'**: Same as above, but the 4 digits must be at the end of the line.
- **grep '#' demo.txt | grep -E '[0-9]{4}' | grep ':'**: Finds lines with '#', then 4 consecutive digits, then a colon. This chains multiple grep commands for a more complex AND operation.
- **grep -E '\\*.\*)' demo.txt**: This command is likely incorrect as it has an unmatched parenthesis. It might be intended to search for lines containing '\*' followed by any characters, then a closing parenthesis. The correct pattern would be \\*.\*\).
- **grep -E '[0-9].\*\)' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing a digit followed by any characters, then a closing parenthesis.
- **grep -E '^[0-9].\*\)' demo.txt**: Same as above, but the digit must be at the beginning of the line.
- **grep -E '[0-9]{2}.\*\)' demo.txt**: Searches for two consecutive digits followed by any characters, then a closing parenthesis.
- **grep -E '[A-Z].\*[0-9]' demo.txt**: Searches for an uppercase letter followed by any characters, then a digit.
- **grep -E '[A-Z]{4}.\*[0-9]' demo.txt**: Searches for 4 consecutive uppercase letters followed by any characters, then a digit.
- **grep -E '^[A-Z].\*[0-9]' demo.txt**: Same as above, but the uppercase letter must be at the beginning of the line.
- **grep -E '[A-Z].\*[0-9]$' demo.txt**: Searches for an uppercase letter followed by any characters, then a digit at the end of the line.
- **grep -E '[A-Z].\*[0-9]{3}$' demo.txt**: Same as above, but with 3 consecutive digits at the end.
- **grep -E '#|[0-9]' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing either '#' or a digit. The '|' acts as an OR operator.
- **grep -E '#|[0-9]$' demo.txt**: Searches for lines containing '#' or ending with a digit.
- **grep -E '^#|[0-9]$' demo.txt**: Searches for lines starting with '#' or ending with a digit.
- **grep -E '^#|:|[0-9]$' demo.txt**: Searches for lines starting with '#', containing a colon, or ending with a digit. This demonstrates multiple OR conditions.
-----

